# Los Angeles Crime & Arrest Analysis (Distributed Systems Final Project)
### Technologies used: Scala, Hadoop, and Spark

#### For some time, reacting to crime instead of predicting when crime will occur has been the standard for law enforcement around the world. However, with predictive analysis, there is potential to enable police to predict when a crime will occur so that they can show up with the necessary resources and prevent crimes from ever occurring. Predictive analysis will make committing crimes more difficult for future offenders. It will also allow for sufficient allocation of resources at crucial times of day so that police officers don’t need to be on standby for 24 hours a day. According to an article by USA Today, “Most police departments have issues, not with the number of officers, it’s with how they are deployed and scheduled” (Weichselbaum). With analytics, this problem can be solved and officers can be scheduled and deployed at crucial times and reduce crime in an efficient manner. Predictive policing can also reduce bias from decisions that police make by relying on the objectivity of data instead. Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) is one of the earliest adopters of predictive policing. They began working with federal agencies in 2008 to explore predictive policing (Lau). In 2011, they began an effort, known as Operation LASER with a data analysis firm called Palantir where they analyzed data about past offenders over a 2-year period to come up with a list of people that are most at risk of reoffending so that they can keep tabs on these people (Lapowsky). However, this program was shut down in 2019 due to it’s little impact on crime reduction and expensive maintenance cost (Puente). It also increased biased arrests since heavy policing only occurred in certain neighborhoods so patrolling officers tended to find most people in these neighborhoods “suspicious” and would often unnecessarily interrogate innocent people. This led to heavy activism towards the LAPD with the main issue being lack of transparency. Our main goal with our data analysis is to publicize it and be as transparent as possible. Our data analysis is objective but how police have interpreted it has led to biased arrests. We believe that transparency is the best policy. The general public can make their own judgements about our data analysis and make their decisions based upon their own interpretations. We also see this data, as being useful to tourists coming to Los Angeles. Many view tourists as lucrative targets, since they typically carry large sums of money and other valuables (Glendsor). Los Angeles is the 3rd hottest spot in the U.S. for tourist attractions! We want our data to save lives. 
